# TEMPLATE

## :fire: Do not edit this file - copy the template and create your own file.

### :pushpin: Step 1
**TITLE:**    
Data Science in Non-STEM Education

**TOPIC:**    
How data science can be incoporated into Non-STEM courses at universities all over the country

**DESCRIPTION (5-7+ sentences):**    
We strongly believe data science can bring students a whole new prespective and understanding of their social science concepts through data visualization for example. By discussing how data science can be incoporated into exisiting curriculus as well as how to start a whole new course exploring the intersection of data science and non-STEM, we hope professors will obtain a general roadmap of creating or add data science into their classrooms. The speaker panel will include UC Berkeley Professors in Legal studies, sociology, and history. We have also invited the data science program coordinator from Cal to discuss data science module creation. 

### :pushpin: Step 2
:family: **TARGET AUDIENCE (3-5+ sentences):**    
This webinar is made for professors, especially ones in the social sciences. We as an organization has realized that not every university is fortunate enough yet to have data science curriculum and initiatives. The target audience of professors we have reached out to are within poltical science, psychology, publich health, sociology, legal studies, and economics. We also have made this event a facebook page inviting any interested students.

### :pushpin: Step 3
> Outline your learning/teaching structure: 

**Research on audience engagement:**
  - What type of content does this audience respond well to?  
      - The audience responds well to topics of their interest. If data science does not interest them. They will not pursue given they only teach sociology for example and is not interested in bringing data science into the picture.
  - What platforms will we use to promote this content?
      - We used emails mostly. We had the event registration on eventbrite and had a facebook page as well.
  - What order should the blogs be released (schedule with Social Media team)?
      - Not clear because our blog and case studies were scrapped last minute. Unfortunately, can't speak to this question or experience.
  - What is the target number of attendees (range)?
    - Really depends on the subject. If professors merely aren't interested in bringing data science into non-STEM, then it'll be difficult to gain professor attendees. At the end, our goal was about 100 professor attendees for this webinar. 
    - What is the target number of people to plan on reaching out to (range)?
     We reached out to about 8500. Very low click, respond, and registration rate. 
    - How are we going to reach this audience (contact collection, email marketing strategy)?
    We collected emails and then used MixMax to email blast them out. 
