# TEMPLATE

## :fire: Do not edit this file - copy the template and create your own file.

**[Step-By-Step Technical Blog Guide](https://hq.bitproject.org/how-to-write-a-technical-blog/)**

### :pushpin: Step 1
**TITLE:**    
Navigating schemas/types/fetching requests, using mutations/subscriptions

**TOPIC:**    
GraphQL

**DESCRIPTION (5-7+ sentences):**    

GraphQL, a language for APIs, was first developed by Facebook. After it was introduced, it became extremely popular as some considered it a better API than rest API because underfetching and overfetching data no longer became a problem. GraphQL allows us to specify the root field and the payload from the client side, giving greater flexibility to manipulate the data we want to request with a single endpoint. Furthermore, GraphQL has special features of allowing the client to update data, commonly known as mutations, as well as receive real-time data, the concept of subscriptions. These are the core concepts I will be covering within my blog. 

### :pushpin: Step 2
:family: **TARGET AUDIENCE (3-5+ sentences):**    

My target audience are beginning coders who have little to no experience with GraphQL. I have quite a bit of experience with coding but I currently do not have much knowledge with GraphQL. My goal is to help others get to the level that I will be in after finishing this blog. All in all, this blog will be concise and easy to learn for students who have minimal experience with coding. 

### :pushpin: Step 3
> Outline your learning/teaching structure: 

**Beginning (2-3+ sentences):**    

As instructed, our blog is supposed to be catered towards people with little to no experience with GraphQL, therefore I will teach my topic in a format that presents a lot of examples. I will begin with giving background information about what GraphQL is: what is it, why is it important, and why do we use it? 

**Middle (2-3+ sentences):**    

Once the topic of GraphQL is covered, I will transition to what mutations and subscriptions are. I am unfamiliar with how to create a client and a server, but once I learn how to do so, I will present code deliverables with images of how to fetch requests related to mutations and subscriptions from the server and client side. 

**End (2-3+ sentences):**    

When the code deliverables are complete, I will explain the next steps that we can take to go further in what we have learned in this blog. I want to encourage others to continue learning GraphQL and work on personal projects of their own to further their knowledge in this topic. 
