# TEMPLATE

## :fire: Do not edit this file - copy the template and create your own file.

**[Step-By-Step Technical Blog Guide](https://hq.bitproject.org/how-to-write-a-technical-blog/)**

### :pushpin: Step 1
**TITLE:**    
{{Build Your First Desktop Application with Electron}}

**TOPIC:**    
{{Electron, Node.js, Javascript}}

**DESCRIPTION (5-7+ sentences):**    
{{A starter guide to Electron which helps you 
  to learn and build your first Electron application.
  Electron is a desktop application development framework that
  uses html, css, and Javascript(Node.js) to construct a desktop
  environment that runs on a Chromium engine. It's also a
  cross-platform framework, which means the same source code
  can be built on different operating systems.
}}

### :pushpin: Step 2
:family: **TARGET AUDIENCE (3-5+ sentences):**    
{{This guide targets people interested in Electron 
  but have little to no experience with it. 
  It is recommended that readers have some experience in html, 
  css and javascript since knowing them is 
  very essential to build an Electron application.
}}

### :pushpin: Step 3
> Outline your learning/teaching structure: 

**Beginning (2-3+ sentences):**    
{{Introduction to Electron with it's features, advantages, and requirements.
  Electron installation, environment setup and configuration.
}}

**Middle (2-3+ sentences):**    
{{A step-by-step guide to front-end-only Hello World example. Source code provided. }}

**End (2-3+ sentences):**    
{{A step-by-step guide to a more elaborated Electron application that has a Node.js backend.
  Source code provided. Links to Electron documents and APIs. }}
