
## :fire: Do not edit this file - copy the template and create your own file.

**[Step-By-Step Technical Blog Guide](https://hq.bitproject.org/how-to-write-a-technical-blog/)**

### :pushpin: Step 1
**TITLE:**    
Understanding Hadoop

**TOPIC:**    
Apache Hadoop

**DESCRIPTION (5-7+ sentences):**    
The Apache Hadoop software library is a framework that allows for the distributed processing of large data sets across clusters of computers using simple programming models. It is designed to scale up from single servers to thousands of machines, each offering local computation and storage. Rather than rely on hardware to deliver high-availability, the library itself is designed to detect and handle failures at the application layer, so delivering a highly-available service on top of a cluster of computers, each of which may be prone to failures.

### :pushpin: Step 2
:family: **TARGET AUDIENCE (3-5+ sentences):**    
We will be reaching out to people who want to get started in the world of big data but donot understand data processing distribution.
An age group is irrelevent the focus is developing basic understanding of data science tools.

### :pushpin: Step 3
> Outline your learning/teaching structure: 

**Beginning (2-3+ sentences):**    
I will be answering, in depth, the following questions:
- Why the need for Hadoop arose
- How does it help in processing BigData. 
- How does it function.

**Middle (2-3+ sentences):**    
Once we have understood the fundemantels and method of implementation. We will focus on creating a dummy pipeline, using Apache Hadoop and some test data. Going into depth regarding how every step functions.

**End (2-3+ sentences):**    
Some useful implementations in the real world and how to get started in them.
