# TEMPLATE

## :fire: Do not edit this file - copy the template and create your own file.

**[Step-By-Step Technical Blog Guide](https://hq.bitproject.org/how-to-write-a-technical-blog/)**

### :pushpin: Step 1
**TITLE:**    
Introduction to HTML

**TOPIC:**    
HTML

**DESCRIPTION (5-7+ sentences):**    
Participants will learn how to the basic functions of HTML work and why certain elements of HTML are useful for projects. The blog will provide a step by step tutorial on how to create a "mini city". This mini city will be comprised of buildings, cars, and a road. Through using the knowledge gained from the blog, the participant should be able to contstruct their own "mini city" with HTML and other combined languages such as CSS. The HTML segment of the tutorial lays out the basic foundation for the city. 

### :pushpin: Step 2
:family: **TARGET AUDIENCE (3-5+ sentences):**    
Middle - High school - Early college students who are not extremely familiar with HTML or the usage of HTML. Considering this project can be done by a beginner, this is the most suitable target audience. These students should have little to no background in code.

### :pushpin: Step 3
> Outline your learning/teaching structure: 

**Beginning (2-3+ sentences):**    
The HTML blog will begin with a general introduction to the elements of HTML. The importance of using HTML as a foundation for the rest of the tutorial will be emphasized.

**Middle (2-3+ sentences):**    
The middle section of the steps should extremely specific and they should indeed hold the hand of the student as they are not familiar with HTML. Every step should have some form of documentation so that it makes sense.

**End (2-3+ sentences):**    
The end of the tutorial should wrap up all of the elements previously taught. There should be an explanation for WHY every step was necessary, so that the student truly understands rather than mindlessly copying.
