# TEMPLATE

## :fire: Do not edit this file - copy the template and create your own file.

**[Step-By-Step Technical Blog Guide](https://hq.bitproject.org/how-to-write-a-technical-blog/)**

### :pushpin: Step 1
**TITLE:**    
Why should we know Probability in Machine Learning?

**TOPIC:**    
Probability and Statistics

**DESCRIPTION (5-7+ sentences):**    
This technical blog covers probability, joint probability, and conditional probability. It also covers dependence / independence of events and how the dependency affects the calculation of joint probability. These are the basic concepts for Bayes’ rule and Bayes’ rule is widely used in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. This blog provides definition, notation, example, and a pop-quiz for the audience to try. 


### :pushpin: Step 2
:family: **TARGET AUDIENCE (3-5+ sentences):**    
Any students who are taking ML class and get stuck on the probability part. At least at my school, prob and stats class is not a prerequisite for an AI class and I have seen lots of friends struggling in the probability part. Target audience could be anyone who wants to start learning ML and does not have a probability and statistics background. 

### :pushpin: Step 3
> Outline your learning/teaching structure: 

**Beginning (2-3+ sentences):**    
start with why we should learn probability in ML and list out a few ML algorithms that use probability.

**Middle (2-3+ sentences):**    
Explain different types of probabilities in detail. Has simple and easy examples for students to follow and a pop-up quiz section.

**End (2-3+ sentences):**    
Summarize what we have learned and provide next steps. For the next steps, I provide a 5-min Youtube link that covers Bayes’ theorem.
